# SQL-Challenge
Module 9 Challenge Assignment
Submitted by:John Ellis
This assignment consists of the following files:
## Root Folder
- README.md - This file
- .gitingore
## Scripts and Supporting Documents
- \EmployeeSQL\ - a folder for housing the SQL scripts and support documents for the assigment.
- \EmployeeSQL\Employee_Salary_List.sql -  an SQL script to list of the employee number, last name, first name, sex and salary of each employee.
- \EmployeeSQL\Employees_Hired_in_1986.sql - an SQL script to list of employees first name, last name and hire date for the employees who were hired in 1986.
- \EmployeeSQL\Managers_By_Department.sql - an SQL script to list of each manager of each department along with their department numberm department namem employee number, last name and first name.
- \EmployeeSQL\Employees_by_Department.sql - an SQL script to list of the department number for each employee along with that employee's employee number, last name, first name, and department name.
- \EmployeeSQL\Employees_Named_B_Hercules.sql - an SQL script to list of employees first anme, last name and sex of each employee whose first name is Hercules and whose last name begins with the letter B.
- \EmployeeSQL\Sales_Department_Employees.sql - an SQL script to list of each employee in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, and first name.
- \EmployeeSQL\Sales-&_Development_Employees.sql - an SQL script to list of eadch employee in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name and department name.
- \EmployeeSQL\Descending_Count_of_Employee_Lastnames.sql - an SQL script to list of all the employee last names and the frequency counts of each ordered in descending order.
- \EmployeeSQL\QuickDBD-EmployeeDB.sql - a sql script generated by QuickDBD (https://www.quickdatabasediagrams.com) to generate the tables and constraints for the EmployeeDB.
- \EmployeeSQL\ - QuickDBD-EmployeesDB.pdf - A pdf document detailing the schema of the EmployeeDB generated by QuickDBD.
- \EmployeeSQL\ - QuickDBD-EmployeeDB.svg - A scalable Vector Graphic file illustrating the ERD of the EmployeeDB generated by QuickDBD.  An online version of this image can be found at https://app.quickdatabasediagrams.com/#/d/79SWM9.
## Supplied Supporting Files
- \EmployeeSQL\data\ - a folder containing the provided comma seperated values files provided for this assignment.